welcome everyone to this week's IPL
desync meeting edge tool either 20 2020
and as every week we go over the stuff
that you've worked on in the past week
and then discuss journey items that we
might have so if you have any items
please add them to the agenda and I
start with myself and it was again one
of those weeks I don't know what I've
spent my time on really so it probably
wasn't mostly fyke related and but on
the iPad ISA I it was I looked into the
details of tiny multi-edge which is
another Martinez implementation rests
which used to be a PR on Martinez it's
this own creator and each is two for
those people to move quicker but the
idea is to take most of those ideas and
get it back into the proper rusts not
here upstream and and it's quite
complicated and I'm still looking into
if it's yeah really cool really smart or
just crazy um but I'm trying to figure
this one out and I'm close but it has a
few cool ideas and certainly also like
API wise it's it's way better and then
kind of all this work was triggered by I
was looking into last file
implementation because they currently
use a fork of all their own version of
iPod II and what needs to be done in
order to get them upstream on the
multi-format stuff as well as on the
upstream ILD and it's kind of
interesting because there it's like they
have a like one of the few you world use
cases that use rust so it's really good
to see ya how they use it and if I
prolly works the way that we think it
should work
and yeah I continued those two things
also in the next week next on my list is
the rod can you hit can hear me yes we
can you
sorry I'm just juggling computers here
okay that's what's going on yeah
now I need to find my notes sorry I'm so
I was off for but we gonna have missed
last week's meeting I still did a little
bit of work while I was away but less so
last week I spent some time on just to
not for any good reason but just because
it was something that I could do while I
was relaxing was my JavaScript C boring
corner and decoder just to tinker with
it and uhm was playing with numbers and
running into the classic JavaScript
number problems and discovered that bork
has interesting behaviors with numbers
that we probably should be documenting
I've put notes in there in the meeting
minutes just basically anything above 2
^ 53 javascript has difficulty handling
with it because everything's represented
as a floating point number and it can't
differentiate it can't do deal with
anything safely above that because you
start to run into overflow each fuse for
each ages so you can't do comparisons
you can't do a bunch of other operations
on edges and actually get safe results
so you know they're like above that
value used to use you seriously loose
functionality so you shouldn't try and
represent numbers safely
value there's been various efforts to
deal with that in Bourque our JavaScript
C bore in current Dakota for exe bore
it uses a dependency called big number J
s to deal with these and so you can pass
at these big number objects and it will
deal with them properly and also if you
if you decode numbers large enough it'll
give you this these big number objects I
think I think that's right maybe not
actually anyway but if you give it a
integer to encode that is above max a
future then it will include it as a
float in C bore so with major major
number seven so it'll be don't say it's
a float it'll kind of come out as any
other language as a float now arguably
that's correct for JavaScript because I
give Li there is no integer in
JavaScript and above that amount it's
you know that's a float so that's kind
of messy there are ways to deal with we
have this new bigand object in
JavaScript it's white Mike working its
way through JavaScript engines that deal
with some of that not all of it but yeah
there's that's just an interesting
challenge point of what do you do above
max a safe future you do have choices
but it's not clear that one choice is
better than another so there's that
there's some just stuff in the meeting
notes about it that I i put out and i
i'm building in big in support into my
thing early on but and assuming by the
time we makes its way out of our stack
that all the major engines will support
and final reminder in there is that just
because it we keep on stumbling up
against this refund the one for go
still does does the old floats at sixty
four-bit whereas in JavaScript it goes
for the floats as smallest possible
accurate representation so we still have
a difference in the way the two
languages deal with it and we need to
resolve that either one way or the other
and I did why I was tempted to going to
go and see what it would be like to make
that make it do the small as possible
but beyond my depth and also not sure
that that's the way we want to do it cuz
maybe we want to do 64-bit and just be
done with it so anyway choices choices
but some of this stuff needs to be in
documentation I'll probably do that into
the decks this week and that's made a
little bitty backlog caching interests
aside from that cleanup activity around
stumble drop last week like fishing
summer factoring was documentation to
test commands also wrote a list of ideas
for IP LD documentation from Michael I'm
gonna start working on that this week
[Music]
yes I'm just making tea I have my
headphones in so I can hear well I mean
okay okay yeah okay
now what did I do alright so Doc's did
some dock work got the dock side out
there's a tutorial it's got multi-line
code examples or the ability to have
multi-line code examples we still need
to get them on there doing more of that
this week as well um we landed the as
CID changed to multi formats which had
been a little bit controversial but
after I talked with goes all and got my
head around and again I realized like
okay yes this is a better way to do this
and
addition to being a better way it
actually solves another issue that we
have so
I actually I just explained this because
I think people here do need to kind of
think about it a little bit especially
for anything that we ever do that
touches JavaScript so in order for
things to really easily go between
worker boundaries they need to be simple
types and a few other things that will
serialize other than just Jason types
symbols don't serialize across that
boundary so we were using symbols to do
the CIE check and that doesn't work well
goes all figured out is like this very
clever hack which is make this s yeah
put an add the CID property on the CID
there's a reference to itself so it's a
circular reference in a predefined
property that means that it doesn't
serialize so it doesn't actually
conflict with any existing space we
don't have to reserve like this property
or anything in the serialization but it
it does mean that like you know we can
safely push these across the worker
boundary and then what you want to do is
instead of doing an in CID check you
want to do this use this as CID method
that actually returns you either the CID
at that reference or another interesting
thing that it can do is that it will
return you that CID
bound to the current CID class so this
is a really big issue with the new
multi-format stuff because if I'm in my
program and I want to check if this is a
CID I actually want it to be a CID it's
bound to my multi-format stable not
somebody else's multi-format stable so
what this will do is actually like
always return me a CID then it's bound
to the right multi-format stable or will
return false or no if it's not a CID so
this means is like across all of our
downs we're gonna have to replace all
these in CID checks but this is like a
much better safer method and it works
really well with workers so that's a
good change over the weekend I updated a
bunch of our code X and the block
interface to use this as well so we
don't get all these really nasty
warnings
yeah also emergency support for better
CJ SMGs multi formats which also led me
to find a couple more iterations on that
script that we have and so now we have
like a much cooler and more robust CJ
has compiled that I need to port over to
the other library still but one nice
thing about it is that now we're using
named imports everywhere rather than
relative imports so they always hit that
import map even though the internal
structures always hit the import map and
we can support that through the compiler
pretty easily now that's great ok this
is crazy
ok so over the weekend I returned to dag
DB and started poking a dag to be a
little bit more and I realized kind of
quickly that in order to make the
command-line interface decent I was
going to need a car file library that
did much more opportunistic parsing of
where the stuff in the car file was and
that I was going to need to probably
have some kind of manifest around and
use that to do realization to really
fast as well in the process of starting
to implement that I'm thinking it
through I think I figured out a way for
us to get a manifest into the footer of
a car file without breaking the existing
car file format so Ron I don't know if
you saw this yet but the idea is
actually pretty simple
you basically you do all you you
basically say in the header there's
another property now next to routes
called footer and then you can give it
like a footer version or we can do some
kind of capabilities or whatever but you
check the header and you say oh this has
a footer and then you look and the last
block ever encoded is a Rob it's a raw
block of nine bytes with sha to 256 so
that is a guaranteed fixed length in the
footer to get that whole raw block
address out and that last nine bytes is
a VAR int and it's the VAR int for the
manifest which is the block right ahead
of that so that allows you to look at
the footer and get the manifest out of
the
foot without breaking the current file
format at all or changing involved we
can only we it's non-destructive and
it's fully backwards compatible with the
existing format and now we can stick a
manifest at the end of a file so that
in-car files I can just look at that
manifest and then parse out what I need
without actually iterating over the
entire file I made it like halfway down
doing this whole thing right now I have
a new car parser car file parser that
will basically just into this manifest
so that I can like start working with
that manifest and figuring out kind of
what the format should look like it
interestingly like you might want to
look at this rod it uses something that
looks a lot like inversing the TS
poussez random access file stuff where
instead of taking a stream or some other
kind of input the input is a read method
that just reads an offset in a length
out of like something just any linear
binary and so this is like super nice
for the car file format because I can
basically parse through the entire file
without ever pulling the block data into
memory I'm just looking like I'm just
skipping through all the different C IDs
and as soon as I hit a cid that is
longer than what I parsed I just like
reset the length but I'm doing so it's
really nice I I can parse like a
gigabyte car file like instantly it's
it's really it just screams it's really
ideal for like this particular
performance case so yeah that's fun to
look at I want to give that on people
during their so that they can think
about it because I am now start
iterating on this footer and we've all
talked about it for quite a while now
so that's in a repo and then just a
minute ago I sent a PR for the FBL teams
that we talked about I think last week
that Peter brought up they basically
just allows you to do inline bytes when
you're in this Union please check out
that PR I'm really that data structure
is very recursive and so I think it
might be a little hard for people to
grok but it does it does work I did find
like an eyesore
clever method to implement this so check
that out and yeah that's it for me next
on my list is Eric I'm gonna keep it
super brief for a change
I worked on docks this week as promised
that that's just it you can just copy
and paste all the dock from the notes if
you wanted please
which is about it uses the the journey
for how we want
UNIX invest v2 to work through something
like ipfs to introduce all the different
features that we've extracted and
defined for that quest so they kind of
took a bunch of the stuff that we talked
about in our last weekly meeting about
like and this is why you're going to
need to like enumerate these ad O's
they'd be like squawks do that so I hope
that's going to be good well it would
love reviewing multiple reads of course
yeah and a bunch of other stuff like
that which I wanna do right that's it
yes so I have been seen almost in Hong
Kong file coin lands the stuff
interesting for ideology is that I just
bit the bullet and actually landed the
changes to the data see ADP CIT and CEO
commitments and all this kind of stuff
so this is now Hong chain is working
against uncovered some minor very minor
issues with the blockchain but it's not
fixed rot by the way I believe JSC ID is
not yet updated to understand this two
pieces I know my idol
reached out your now to pay stats
for the CID decoder sites it doesn't
understand then you say this yet
and I also try to do an update of go car
which is actually way more complicated
than it should be because of dependency
chain of that not being very healthy and
that's progress unfortunately and also I
had number of conversations with Adam
about I didn't see id length and stuff
like that actually probably two hours to
mostly talking about this we think that
we have a better idea how to reorganize
the table to make it clearer to an
implementer what can cannot be expected
and we hope to have a prototype ready
sometime this week to have a mini PR
with it and discuss it next week and
that's what I have one thing to note
real quick about updating that table we
there's another thread somewhere else
about the format of the table and it's
not actually being good in this format I
I would really like to actually see the
markdown because then we'd get much more
flexibility yeah so we can easily parse
it on a markdown and create a CSV yeah
my my thing is actually the other way
because markdown is still like yes it's
it's easy to pass but it's not great for
machines so my thing is it'll actually
be a JSON which spits out the markdown
the CSV file so on and so forth but this
one will be the machine possible thing
that is the point
well the markdown is the markdown is
easier for us to take pr's on and so we
have automation that generates the rest
then it would actually be cleaner to
have the reference in markdown and then
we can spit out the CSV in JSON I
actually like I see women let me see I
don't have time to do today
might be able to poke this today
actually because I'd like have code
around to do stuff like this already
okay my guy I have code somewhere like
where is it but I have good somewhere in
JavaScript that pulls in markdown pulls
on a table and it turns them into a
semantic representation and so I could I
can just pull it over and turn it into a
github action yeah so if you're gonna do
JavaScript tooling in there you might
want to because there's Python tooling
in there ready to the validation so it
should either be one thing or the other
so if you're gonna do JavaScript then
you should turn the validator into
JavaScript as well
what is the validator knows well then is
to be really there anyway especially if
we're going to be doing markdown because
you can put a lot of crap in markdown
it's just going to come out just right
just about right and then you read it
the JSON and it's not that right anymore
so we'll have to be a lot of testing
actually yeah up okay I'll cook at the
Python I mean we can just launch the
Python script from actions as well
though I mean once once we output we can
just like run the action that does the
CSV output it and call the Python thing
for now and then update it later but but
yeah ideally eventually I'd want it to
just be one thing yeah if you if you can
open this and just tag me when when you
have the PR that's even better people
speaking up to get up to speed was
that's that's a lot of stuff to get
through yeah so they would be using
markdown tables for the for the
colleagues just like like to me like
markdown papers probably the worst table
of form and you can have like even you
won't ever have to write code the deals
markdown
I promise you so no I mean thanks for
the view of you in the file in a text
editor or something I think like my
markdown table format this the worst
like even series better but like yeah so
just like like I I would prove like I
would probably prefer even Jason to it
but like agree and as there is
discussion in that thread about that I
like github Brenda's mocked and renders
CSV nicely as
like it renders it so I didn't see why
we would need to go mock down for any of
that it doesn't render it nicely when
you have a long-ass description like we
have in a bunch of dummy that like
that's what messes up - look at the
table that's why the tables in markdown
look a little bit nicer also I will say
that like your editor may not like it
but the diffs in github look really nice
when you're using markdown and not as
much now wait second markdown the reason
we were going for JSON or or something
structured is because we need to express
extra stuff that will not be visible on
the on the side so with markdown you
can't do comments and stuff like that or
not 380 I mean you can it's Martin yeah
yeah it's a good point in Savanna
renders I mean you can literally like in
the description link down and then when
you link down have like more notes about
a particular format so it's actually
like much it's flexible in the way that
I think that we all right not everything
has to be tall yellow if you read that
thread there's agreement about that it's
just that there is also a lot of
discussion about how markdown tables on
ideal so maybe review the thread before
you plow into that one and just make
sure you're gonna have people hating you
for doing this I mean I think I mark no
table is only reasonable if we can keep
the line links low but I think that we
can keep the line links low in markdown
because we can link lower in the file to
have more details and we don't have to
put everything into like one line that's
it's the description because the
description field is like completely
unnecessary for the CSV in the jail like
nobody I think Peters plans are
different like from what it sounds it's
okay Michael wants to actually deal with
github actions and all this kind of like
I'll take anything
okay so at least for like further record
it seems to be that Lord and I pretty
skeptical about using mic down for
future reference I'll send the PR you
can argue better yes I'm looking forward
to that yeah I will invite all the night
on haters I know I will it's only that
I'm skeptical it's also that some of
these things sometimes it's good to be
evolutionary rather than revolutionary
and it's CSV now but you basically
saying you want to throw that away and
go to marketing table and then transform
it into Jason like maybe evolutionary
would be the best approach for something
that is heavily used it's like a hundred
lines though that's the problem it's got
a lot of oh just right so minor thing is
the CSV is there to stay and it has to
be because he has the risk code that
literally looks at the CSV we can't not
keep that so that's out of the question
the previous we learned it'll stay in
the same place it will still be with the
same amount of columns that we cannot
add anything but the extra stuff will go
into markdown and the JSON and stuff
like that so that new code can actually
have a spot to discover new tags as you
know as we progressed now in the Senate
progressed over there like for example
we will at some point have to dumb stuff
like minimums which we will have to
update going forward so things like that
all right - is there anything else
anyone wants to talk about yeah I was
going to say put two things from the
agenda okay it is yeah so the first one
is basically prompting Michael to talk
about the tork week what you know what's
being envisioned and then Chris product
some stuff earlier today in another
meeting that I want power in space-time
I'll cover the dark stuff um so I I just
fixed the permission
on the repo so we should all have
permissions to push in that let me know
if you don't have push permissions in
the docs repo the idea right now is like
any doc any doc that you have an idea
about just create a stub for it and
there's like a drives folder that Eric
created and even if you just have like a
title in the description that's fine
like you go and fill it it later but
like there should be no barrier to just
like writing a doc and getting a doc
into the new site it can be about
anything it can be any piece of content
we'll take stock of all of this in
August and try to organize it all and
figure out like where things are going
and what the kind of user stories are
but right now like we just we just need
to write content so anybody that has any
extra time or an idea for a thing that
they think should exist please write it
as soon as possible and then we will you
all sit back up in August to really
power through it so basically I think
used to not have anything much right now
to basically just him stuff on to him
and I mean push the master like don't
don't send PR don't do branches just
push the master anything that you want
to do and then we and we're not gonna do
edits yet like we'll do anything in a
later phase it's now like you know in
that first draft I'll just get all the
words out that we can think of and
basically whatever it is like loosely I
feel data later belongs there kind of
thing yep
okay cool then next item is yeah yeah so
I brought this up so earlier today I
because office hours somebody said
something like you know ideally is not
quite ready yet for devs and Chris can
jump to that I don't understand why
they're saying this is like so radiant
you should you know be promoting for
people to be using it and stuff like
that and my counter to this was like
well we don't really have any type of
conversions story at all so if we have
all kinds of people writing you know I
build the schemas for the hand same kind
of stuff then we don't have we don't
have a path to them to go like you know
what guys you could try to do this stuff
like the other person basically kept in
kind of like very uniting schemas down
the road so this might take why we don't
want to like open this way to the world
but basically generally also don't have
an answer to that like from the group
why what is considered not not done for
I ability to be more
used I mean it actually is being used a
lot is the thing it's just like Matt I
mean the docks are the big one honestly
like we don't have a great way to
explain these things to people
especially in the context of our new or
libraries so that's like the big thing
like just getting the docks out of the
way but a lot of the libraries are
already in in use so it's not not ready
in that regard it really depends on kind
of who's asking that question like it is
ready I mean it's ready for a bunch of
people that are already using it for
certain piece can you give more context
like because I'm actually joined when
you were answering they didn't join when
the question was asked yeah well I'm
trying to number but amuse the ipfs so
my general general comment here it is hi
do I go the ipfs office hour to do the
weekly kind of demos they've been doing
and it just doesn't seem like there's a
much awareness of IP LD you know it's
not something that you know we're not
really there's no representation from my
building team that kind of provides
updates or lightning talks or anything
like that so I think there's a lot
there's not a clear you know idea of
kind of how fits in so I think that
comment actually came from someone on
the ipfs team I Maru was Peter but
basically said oh yeah we're not I feel
the one else was using yet because it's
still in progress or something and so I
think one one thing in I mean it's nice
to hear we probably all feel obviously
is more we could do but despite
documentation that helps them kind of
like use it effectively the codes not
bad it's not like it's you know there's
a lot that can be used in this being use
I think people just need a better
understanding of how they can put you
using what it is and I think you know
one thing we can think about is can we
try to cue something up for those
lightning talks or whatever I'm not sure
because we kind of start more of a pop
for layers can be kind of hard to you
have demos on that sometimes but at
least share something out there Mike
Mike
good and I know it's talking to Michael
this morning just I think there's a lot
of developers out there that don't need
don't really get what content dress
storage is it's pretty easy to say hey
I'm gonna file my file system let me
stick it into IB FS but it's another
thing to think about how do I create a
complete application that's using like a
dag you know an IPO d-block store buy
peel DS I don't think people know was
talked out in school we don't really
have good other than maybe get and so
it's like I think this whole gig is
wrapped up in that's all watching stuff
in the future it's not relevant to me
today that's not true I mean I think I I
can kind of see where someone on one of
the ipfs teams would be coming from
because on the one hand we have two new
like next-generation libraries affright
Kilby and go and in JavaScript both of
which are being used by some people but
not by those ipfs implementations and
they did a bunch of work to add this dag
API like before I peeled II really had
these libraries and we've been actively
telling people like don't use those dang
API is there like not great like instead
you should use like and I filled the
librarian and then we don't have proper
documentation anywhere on here's how to
use our new I filled the library that
we're encouraging people to use but then
to put that data into ipfs it's like
actually like a specific doc that Edina
asked it's like this would really help
in a lot of the back of that stuff in
particular we should really get this
written so I think like my my tasks like
this week is to get the getting started
in JavaScript like tutorial ready that's
just like you know here's that peeled
and JavaScript how to do things and I
think paired with that in every language
we should have something about how to
get data from the Satori you just
learned how to do things the right way
and I feel be into ipfs probably with
the block API most likely but you know
like here's actually how you get because
most people that are using agility right
now are taking data and stickyman ipfs
so like we need to bridge that thing
because we're saying don't use the daga
api but they do so yeah
I think like part part of this is it is
documentation and then also I think the
perspective of the ipfs engineers is
always going to be like a little bit
different than the perspective that we
are trying to give to new developers
because we have actively been telling a
lot of us folks like don't you migrate
all of your code to this new library
until we have it working because you
should not be the first consumer of that
but in order for them to consume it ever
there needs to be other consumers first
that we like iterate with and and find
like you know all the bottoms and
everything and yeah yeah we have a
little bit of work to do and then also
we need to make sure that like the math
there's some messaging alignment with
the ipfs folks come on tell me
one other relay thank you I placed a
link in the notes there but there is
some issue as someone recently filed
about kind of like there's this big SJS
ipfs light from textile which is
essentially kind of like a network
player data layer which they build the
unite PFS it doesn't have all the other
things that come in with the flow I give
this install kind of the idea here is
that there's a lot you can do with this
it's not the bear bit on them and I
think you know I don't know it's like
that confess group is focused on I guess
not
this is too low level of an issue for
them they're kinda like trying to solve
application issues but this got more
like an expansion of the infrastructure
there's like a little mini you know blue
mini infrastructure set you need to do
just basic stuff with IP LD without
having to like understand everything oh
I give s and deals all over it's
actually really nice the I think that's
white stuff it's actually it's pretty
nice we may in our documentation want to
to UM mention both but have examples of
working with both when we do the getting
stuff and I'll give us because it is
really good and the story on the
JavaScript side at least is actually a
lot better because we they are using our
new libraries in JSF people is quite
unlike the full JSF BFS right now
you
all right anything else I guess I guess
one but one thing that kind of dovetails
with what Chris said is that a lot of
the folks who are asking how do i you
know stop my data and why don't you
properly
they come from the ipfs angle which
implies that and i'll be able to use
with the gateway which is there is
deciding on the case today right so
that's another thing that i guess would
be to keep in mind that because
especially people who come to that IBM s
office hour i am pretty sure they expect
the Gateway to just you know speed stuff
back out in a usable form which well if
they want files they should use idea
fast like we shouldn't we shouldn't tell
them to use I feel D if they want files
like that is kind of like what passes
menthol like so you know it the gateway
could return them block data but I don't
think they're gonna get like a ton of
use out of the the Gateway if they're
not going files and if they're doing
files and we should point them and I
think this all right cool then there's
anything else I lost the meeting so
goodbye everyone and see you all next
week